So far we have learned how to work with RabbitMQ and Spring Boot and send messages via RabbitTemplate.
Now we want to implement a better mechanism for sending and receiving messages, namely using JSON as the message format.
This is called implementing a JSON Message Converter, which eliminates the need to manually convert messages.
We send a message (DummyMessage) from the Producer.
This message is stored in JSON format (without manually converting it).
In the Consumer, the message is received and processed without any problems.
Here we have manually converted the message to JSON! But we want this to be done automatically.
(String jsonMessage = objectMapper.writeValueAsString(myMessage);)
🔹 How do we solve this problem?
Using Jackson2JsonMessageConverter, which automatically converts our messages between JSON and Java Object.

Prefetch Count allows you to control how many messages are sent to a consumer at a time.
Suppose you set the prefetch count to 250. Now, when a consumer connects to RabbitMQ and requests messages to process, 250 messages are sent to the consumer at a time.
If the number of messages is large and the consumer processing is slow, some consumers may become idle because they have no messages to process, even if other consumers are processing.
For example, if you have 500 messages in the queue and you have 2 consumers each receiving 250 messages, but the consumers are processing very slowly (say 20 seconds per message), the other consumers may not receive any messages and become idle.
Scenario 1:
When we set the prefetch value to 250, all 500 messages are sent to two consumers. But since consumers are slow, all messages are sent to consumers 1 and 2 and consumer 3 does not receive any messages.
Scenario 2:
Now that we have changed the prefetch count to 1, consumers receive messages one by one. Therefore, more consumers are active simultaneously and all messages are distributed equally among consumers.
In case of slow processing, a low prefetch count (e.g. 1) can be useful so that messages are sent one by one and all consumers are active.
For faster processing, we can choose a higher prefetch count (e.g. 250) so that messages are sent to consumers quickly.

Default prefetch value:
In Spring, the default value for prefetch is 250. This means that each consumer can hold up to 250 unacknowledged messages in memory. This value is not set by default in the application.yaml configuration.

Effect of setting the prefetch value:
If we change the prefetch value to 1, this means that each consumer can only hold one unacknowledged message in memory.
In this case, when the producer sends 500 messages to the queue and then stops, these messages are distributed evenly among all consumers and each consumer receives the messages one by one.

Why is prefetch important?:
If the processing time in consumers is long, a low prefetch value (such as 1) helps to distribute the messages evenly among all consumers and no consumer is left without work. Whereas if the prefetch value is high (e.g. 250), some consumers may be busy processing messages while others remain idle.



